---
title: 'Day 1 Recap'
date: 2024-03-20T16:16:59-04:00
draft: false 
---

### What will we cover?
- Equities: Also known as stocks or shares, represent ownership in a corporation. Holders of equities are known as shareholders, and are entitled to dividends and voting rights in some scenarios. The value comes in the scenario when a corporation liquidates its assets and pays its debts and returns leftover capital to shareholders.
- Fixed Income: Also known as bonds or credit, are a class of assets that pay interest over a fixed schedule. The principal lent is paid back at the end of the term. Defaults can happen if the debtor fails to pay back, which results in either a full or partial loss. 
- Real Estate: Any physical property that can have natural resources and can give cash flows in the form of rent. 
- Commodities: Natural resources that are used for production or consumption, or as a store of value.
- Currencies: Foreign currencies that can fluctuate at market rates. 
- Derivatives: Financial assets that are connected to another asset.

### What will you learn? 
- Security Analysis: The assessment of investment products for their value and their potential for returns. 
- Accounting: Interpreting financial statements and records to make an informed conclusion of an enterprise.  
- Risk Management: Identifying any uncertainty, potential for losses, and mitigating any risks. 
- Investment Strategies: Different approaches to investing, with each strategy focusing on maximizing returns and minimizing risk. 
- Trading Strategies: Interpreting price, time, and volume to infer market behavior, which is taken advantage of. 
- Economics: Understand how economic events and fiscal policy have an effect on the financial landscape and on asset prices. 

**Next meeting:**
- Market dynamics
- Equity investing and trading 
