### What's a market?
A market is a place of exchange to facilitate the buying and selling of goods or services. Market participants include sellers and buyers. 
\
\
When we talk about the stock market, we talk about pieces of ownership (stocks) being bought or sold.
\
\
### What exactly is a stock?
Also known as shares or equities, they represent ownership in publicly traded companies.
Shares of publicly traded companies can be bought and sold on the stock market .
\
\
Holding any amount of shares makes you an *shareholder* (owner of a business). You effectively own a larger piece of a company if you hold more shares. 
Corporations can have as many shares as they want. 
\
\
**Example:** Dollarama has 281.24M shares, if you were to own 200,000 shares, you would own 0.07% of Dollarama

### Why have stocks?
Companies often need to raise funds (capital) for the business. Examples of the need for capital are the TV shows *Dragon's Den* and *Shark Tank*. In these shows, entrepreneurs ask investors for money in exchange for ownership of a business. 
\
\
Companies become publicy traded through a process called an *initial public offering* (IPO). An IPO lets a company sell ownership in exchange for capital. 

### The process of going public
When a corporation IPOs, they issue (create) shares out of thin air and sell them to new investors on the stock market.

**Example:** In 2009, Dollarama IPO’d, and issued 17,142,857 shares. These shares were sold at $17.50 each to new investors. Dollarama becomes a publicy-traded corporation. Shares of Dollarama can be bought and sold to other investors publicy.

### The effects of issuing new shares
In 2009, Dollarama issued 17,142,857 shares at a price of $17.50 each, Dollarama had raised $300 million.
\
\
At the time, new investors are directly investing their money into Dollarama. Each time an investor purchased a share, they gave $17.50 in cash to the corporation, and owned a share.
\
\
Dollarama can use the proceeds from its IPO for many possibilities. Some examples include paying down debt, expanding the core business, acquiring other enterprises, or researching new technology. 
\
\
However, because new shares were issued, previous owners who had held Dollarama saw their ownership in the company decrease. 
**Example:** Before Dollarama's IPO, Dollarama had 30,000,000 shares distributed among two owners. These two owners own 100% of Dollarama. When Dollarama issued 17,142,857 shares in its IPO, the *shares outstanding* (total amount of shares) was 47,142,857. The original two owners now only own 64% of Dollarama. If Dollarama was to make a $100 million in income, the two owners would only claim 64% of that. 

### The benefits of owning stocks
- When corporations sell all their assets (things they own), pay their liabilities (any debts they owe), the leftover amount is distrubted to shareholders. This means that shareholders hold a claim of the corporation's assets. This claim is simply called, *equity*.
- As a result of business performance, the equity of a corporation can grow. This benefits shareholders as their claim on the corporation is growing.  
- Some shares come with voting rights, which allow you to vote for decisions to be made in the business
- You can make money if your stocks appreciate in *price*, and are sold for higher on the market than what you bought it for.
- You can receive dividends (income) from owning shares.

### The risks of owning stocks
- If you were to sell the stocks at a lower price than what you would originally bought it for, you would have a loss. 
- The equity in a corporation can shrink, depending on business performance. 
- Because shares are an asset, it is subject to market conditions, uncertainty, and business risks
- Other risks include economic risk, legal risk, policy risk, market risk, and liquidity risk

### Trading stocks
Stocks are traded under an exchange, with a ticker symbol (nickname). 

**Example:** Dollarama’s ticker symbol is “DOL”, traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, (TSE/TSX). You can refer to Dollarama’s stock as (TSX: DOL).

Stock exchanges only accept orders from members. Banks and financial institutions are typically members of a stock exchange. You’ll need a broker, who executes orders on behalf of you for a commission. 
\
\
Commissions from brokers are usually a fixed fee for a buy or sell order. 

### How do stock prices work? 
Like anything that’s traded on a market, a stock’s price is subject to supply and demand, which is entirely up to human behavior. 
\
\
However, there are distinct factors that directly influence supply and demand. For example, because stocks represent a claim in a corporation, if business performance is well, its value will grow, thus increasing its demand.
\
\
**Demand Factors:**
- Shareholders’ claim grows as a result of business performance
- Future expectations on growth
- Likeable management
- Comparison to other oppoturnities  
- Ownership interest

**Supply Factors:**
If corporations issue more capital (stock) to new investors, this’ll dilute previous investors’ ownership, and create more shares that can be traded, thus increasing supply.
\
\
A stock may be compared to other investments, such as stocks of other companies, bonds, or even real estate to answer questions like *Why should I own this over anything else*, *Is it less risky than other investments?*, *How does this company compare to its peers?*. 

**Example:** The government of Ontario owns 47.2% of Hydro One, a public utility company. Compared to other Canadian utilities, Hydro One has excellent high-level employees, is less risky due to their importance in Ontario's energy transmission, and can fall under government support in the case of an emergency. The company has a long track record of growing revenue and income, and satisfies equity growth. These factors will make Hydro One's stock *relatively* more in demand than other types of investments, thus seeing price increases overtime. 
\
\
The nature of a stock’s price is influenced mostly from demand. Studying demand is the key to generating returns (profit) in the stock market. 
\
\
Because we believe (most) companies will grow their revenues and income over the long run, which results in increased demand for stocks of these companies, we see that (most) of the stock market has performed well overtime. 
\
\
We’ll later go in depth on how you can analyze these factors. 

### Indexes
With so many companies listed on a stock market, it is important to know how they perform. An index measures the performance of various assets. The most popular index is the S&P 500, which measures the performance of the largest 500 US-listed stocks. On a long-term basis, the S&P 500 has returned 9.8% per year.

### Investment products
There are many types of investments. There are also many ways to invest in different assets. Investment products are the ways you can gain exposure to a particular investment. 
\
\
There are many investment products, but we'll cover two for now, which are mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. 
\
\
Mutual funds pool money from many investors to invest in a mix of stocks, bonds, and other assets. 
They're managed by professionals, who charge fees. Mutual funds can target different investment goals, like growth or income. 

Exchange-Traded Funds or ETFs, are investment funds that trade on stock exchanges, similar to individual stocks. 
They typically track an index, commodity, bonds, or a basket of assets. 
ETFs offer everyday investors broad exposure various markets, sectors, or asset classes. 
They provide liquidity, flexibility, and less fees compared to traditional mutual funds.

