---
title: 'Day 3 Recap'
date: 2024-04-16T16:16:59-04:00
draft: false 
---

# Measuring business performance

It’s important to know how a business is doing. As an investor in a company, we’d like to know the following:
-   Is the company profitable?
-   Can the company pay income (dividends) to its owners (shareholders)?
-   Can the company manage its debt?
-   Is the company growing in terms of revenue and profit?

Such questions can be answered with financial statements. 

# What are financial statements?
Financial statements convey financial performance about a company.
\
\
There are three types of financial statements:

-   Income statement: Revenues, expenses (costs in generating revenue), and overall profit over a specified time period (quarterly or annually)
-   Balance sheet: Assets (things they own), liabilities (debts they owe), and equity (what owner’s claim)
-   Cash flow statement: The cash inflows and outflows of a business over a specified time period

# Earnings Per Share
EPS tells you how much income is generated for each share of a company. We pay attention to EPS to understand the profitability.
\
\
**Example:** In Dollarama’s recent fiscal year, they generated $1 billion in net income, and had 283 million shares oustanding. For every share of Dollarama, you get $3.57 in earnings.
\
\
When EPS is positive, it means that the company is profitable.
\
\
We also want to see that a company is growing its income. This is demonstrated by a growth in EPS overtime.
\
\
Current EPS and growing future EPS reflects good financial performance, which would be given back to shareholders in the form of dividends (income), buyback stock**, or to keep in the business for safekeeping or expansion.
\
\
Negative EPS indicates the company is unprofitable, which can lead to financial trouble.
\
\
We compare EPS of many stocks to gain an understanding of how stocks should be priced, and expectations on growth.

# Equity Growth
If Dollarama made $1 billion in income, should shareholders’ equity go up by $1 billion as well?
\
\
**Not always.** Dollarama had returned capital to shareholders through dividends and buybacks, totalling about $700 million. Because capital is being returned to shareholders, the capital is gone from the company. This reduces assets and equity, but capital is returned to shareholders, so it has no effect.
\
\
This is an example of why it is confusing to understand financial statements. But there’s only a few areas which you need to pay attention to:
-   Current Assets, Current Liabilities
-   Debt
-   Shareholder’s Equity
- Income
-   Revenues
-   Expenses

# Accessing Financial Reports
Company websites have an IR (Investor Relations) section on their website, where press releases, relevant media, as well as financial statements are available.
\
\
Finance websites like Yahoo Finance and TradingView, and databases like EDGAR and SEDAR.
\
\
Companies report on a quarterly and annual basis.  

