---
title: 'Day 4 Recap'
date: 2024-04-17T16:16:59-04:00
draft: false 
---

# Price vs. Value
“Price is what you pay; value is what you get.” - Benjamin Graham
\
\
When we talk about value, we talk about how much a stock is worth.
\
\
When we talk about price, we talk about the price a willing buyer and seller agree on.

# Pair of sneakers
Imagine a new pair of sneakers is released, and just like any other pair of sneakers, it costs $20 to make.
\
\
The pair of sneakers is so popular that it can be sold for $100.
\
\
Buyers are willing to pay a premium for the sneakers (in other words, buyers are willing to pay a premium to its value).
\
\
The premium may be a result of buyers believe the sneaker could sell for more, maybe there is a very limited supply, or it looks unique, or maybe it has intrinsic value (Maybe the sneakers are created by a famous celebrity)

# What's a stock's value?
The value of a stock comes from when assets all sold, liabilities (debts) are paid, and leftover cash is given to owners.

**Example:** Apple has $352 billion in assets, $290 billion in liabilities, and $62 billion in equity. Therefore, Apple's value is $62 billion. If Apple has 15 billion shares outstanding, each share of Apple is worth $4.13. 
\
\
A company's value is directly influenced by business performance. If a company reports a loss, owners have less claim over the total assets. This makes the stock worth less. If the company reports a profit, owners have more claim over the total assets. This makes the stock worth more.

# Future benefits
Not only do investors look at current value, they look at what happens to value in the future.
\
\
We see investors will give up cash to companies when they think a company will perform well in the future. The same idea applies here. Investors are always looking to seek the highest growth in value, and will pay an appropriate price to do to.
\
\
When it is expected that the stock will increase in value, the stock will appreciate in price. The opposite is also true.

# Valuation ratios 
A valuation ratio compares the price of a stock to some financial metric.
\
\
It’s important to the price you pay and the amount of earnings per share you will receive when you buy a stock. This is known as the **price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio**.
\
\
**Example:** Hershey's stock sells for $181, and the EPS is $9.06. The P/E ratio is equivalent to the price divided by EPS, which is 20. This means for every $20 invested in Hershey's it yields $1 of earnings.

# The company's bottomline 
A company’s profit is the #1 factor for price. A company experiencing growth in earnings will eventually see the price increase.
\
\
We can project how profit will grow for a company to understand the price in the future.
\
\
We can use a formula called the CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) This tells us how much earnings are growing per year. 
\
\
**Example:** Hershey’s EPS (CAGR) is 13% (from 2020 - 2023). This means Hershey’s grew their EPS 13% each year from 2020 to 2023.
\
\
Using the CAGR, we can assume the EPS for 2024 would be $10.24 (9.06 x 1.13)
\
\
If you were to use Hershey's P/E ratio as of today, and substitute the ratio and EPS into the equation, the price would be $204.80. This will only hold true if the market keeps the valuation of Hershey's at 20 times earnings, and Hershey's will follow through with an EPS growth rate of 13%.
\
\
However, the market does fluctuate in terms of willingness on how much earnings is reasonable for money invested. Sometimes, it is irrational (illogical), sometimes it is rational (logical). 
\
\
This means that perhaps in the future, there is the chance the market is only willing to pay $10 for a $1 of earnings, or it be willing to pay $30 for a $1 of earnings. 
\
\
We make money from security analysis by buying when the market is pessimistic about earnings, and we sell when the market is optimistic about earnings.

# The topic of Security Analysis
What we had just covered only scratched the surface of security analysis.
\
\
For example, we looked at Hershey’s P/E ratio overtime, and had forecasted its earnings and what's it future stock price might look like.
\
\
The usefulness of security analysis is comparing a variety of financial ratios overtime, to competitors, and forecasting a variety of financial metrics.


